Datadog Incident Management guide (#46514)
gravitational/teleport: docs/pages/admin-guides/access-controls/access-request-plugins/ssh-approval-datadog.mdx

---
title: Access Requests with Datadog Incident Management
description: How to set up Teleport's Datadog Incident Management plugin for privilege elevation approvals.
---

## How it works

With Teleport's Datadog Incident Management integration, engineers can access the
infrastructure they need to resolve incidents without longstanding admin
permissions that can become a vector for attacks.

Teleport's Datadog Incident Management integration allows you to treat Teleport
Role Access Requests as Datadog incidents, notify the appropriate on-call team,
and approve or deny the requests via Teleport.

> <Details title="This integration is hosted on Teleport Enterprise (Cloud)" open={false}>

Reviewer: It's not clear if this is a cloud-only feature, enteprise-only, or can still be done by running the self-hosted plugin (we do have [the main function here](https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/blob/master/integrations/access/datadog/cmd/teleport-datadog/main.go) for the standalone executable).

Now click on the "Teleport Access" service account that was just created and click
on the **Application Keys** tab and click on **New Key** and name it "Teleport Access"
to create a new Application key. Copy the Application key to paste in a later step.

![Datadog dashboard for Application Keys](../../../../img/enterprise/plugins/datadog/dashboard-application-keys.png)

## Step 4/5. Enroll the Datadog Incident Management plugin

At this point, you're now ready to enroll the Datadog Incident Management plugin.
Navigate to **Access Management -> Enroll New Integration -> Datadog**.

![Select enrollment](../../../../img/enterprise/plugins/datadog/select-enrollment.png)

Provide the API and Application keys generated above. Select the desired API endpoint.
Then provide the Datadog team handle, that you created earlier, as the fallback recipient.
This should be "teleport-access". The fallback recipient will be the default recipient
for notifications. You can configure more custom notification routing rules afterwards
using Access Monitoring Rules.

![Datadog enrollment](../../../../img/enterprise/plugins/datadog/datadog-enrollment.png)

> If the recipient is a Datadog team, the team name will be added to the Datadog incident

Reviewer: > If the recipient is a Datadog team

Can the recipient be something else than a team? If so it would be useful to define supported recipient types.

> teams attribute. The plugin will not manually send notifications to members of the
> team. Instead you will want to navigate to **Incidents -> Settings -> Notifications -> Rules**
> and add a notification rule for when an incident with the matching teams attribute
> is created or updated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
teams attribute.

The plugin creates incidents and labels them with the recipient team. By default, the team members won't get notified, you must configure Datadog notification rules to page the team members. To do so, navigate to **Incidents -> Settings -> Notifications -> Rules** and create a new rule matching alerts labeled with the recipient team.
```

![Datadog dashboard for Incident Notification Rules](../../../../img/enterprise/plugins/datadog/dashboard-notification-rules.png)

<Details title="Suggested reviewers">

Users can suggest reviewers when they create an Access Request, e.g.,:

```code
$ tsh request create --roles=dbadmin --reviewers=alice@example.com,ivan@example.com
```

If an Access Request includes suggested reviewers, the Datadog Incident Management

> plugin will add these to the list of users to notify.

Reviewer: What's the format of sugested reviewrs? emails? do we also support other team names? Can datadog users have usernames that are not emails?

This guide will explain how to set up Teleport's Access Request plugin for Datadog.

![Datadog plugin architecture](../../../../img/enterprise/plugins/datadog/diagram.png)

## Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/commercial-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

(!docs/pages/includes/machine-id/plugin-prerequisites.mdx!)

- This requires the [`jq` CLI tool](https://jqlang.github.io/jq/).

- A Datadog account with the role "Datadog Admin Role". The admin role is required to
  create a Service Account and generate required credentials for the plugin.

  You can see your role by visiting your user page in Datadog and navigating to
  **Personal Settings -> Profile** and checking the value of the **Roles** field.

- Either a Linux host or Kubernetes cluster where you will run the Datadog plugin.

- (!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)

## Step 1/9. Create Datadog team

To demonstrate the Datadog Incident Management plugin, create a team in Datadog.
In the Datadog web UI, navigate to the **Teams** tab and click on **New Team** to
create a new Datadog team. Name it "Teleport Access".

We will configure the Datadog Incident Management plugin to route certain access

> requests to the "Teleport Access" team.

Reviewer 2: Some of these steps are exactly the same between hosted and self-hosted guides, can we move them out into includes?

for available Datadog regions.

`api_key`: Open [`https://app.datadoghq.com/organization-settings/api-keys`](https://app.datadoghq.com/organization-settings/api-keys),
find the "Teleport Access" API key you created earlier and copy the key into this
field.

`application_key`: Open [`https://app.datadoghq.com/organization-settings/application-keys`](https://app.datadoghq.com/organization-settings/application-keys),
find the "Teleport Access" Application key you created for your service account
and copy the key into this field.

`severity`: Specifies the Datadog incident severity.

**`[role_to_recipients]`**

The `role_to_recipients` map configures the recipients that the Datadog Incident Management
plugin will notify when a user requests access to a specific role. When the plugin
receives an Access Request from the Auth Service, it will look up the role being
requested and identify the Datadog users or teams to notify.

<Tabs>
<TabItem label="Executable or Docker">
Here is an example of a `role_to_recipients` map:

```toml
[role_to_recipients]
"*" = ["admin-team"]
"dev" = ["dev-team", "admin-team"]

> "dba" = ["user@example.com"]

Reviewer 2: Role to recipients is deprecated in favor of notification routing rules. Let's not use this anymore.
